---
bio:
education:
  courses:
  - course: PhD in Psychology 
    institution: University of Glasgow
    year: 2017 -
  - course: MSc Psychological Studies
    institution: University of Glasgow
    year: 2016 - 2017
  - course: MA Management and Organisational Analysis
    institution: University of Warwick
    year: 2011 - 2012
  - course: Bachelor of Accountancy
    institution: University of Malta
    year: 2005 - 2010    
email: "r.cassar.2@research.gla.ac.uk"
highlight_name: true
interests:
- Experimental psychology
- Face perception
- Open science
organizations:
- name: University of Glasgow
role: PhD Student
social:
- icon: envelope
  icon_pack: fas
  link: /#contact
- display:
    header: true
  icon: twitter
  icon_pack: fab
  label: Follow me on Twitter
  link: https://twitter.com/_rachelcassar
- icon: github
  icon_pack: fab
  link: https://github.com/CassarR
- icon: linkedin
  icon_pack: fab
  link: https://www.linkedin.com/in/rachel-cassar/
superuser: true
title: Rachel Cassar
---

I am a psychology PhD student and a member of the Face Research Lab at the University of Glasgow. I have now submitted my thesis and am anticipating a date for my viva. My PhD investigates the methodologies and theoretical explanations used in the study of perceived facial similarity in mate choice, i.e. whether couples look alike. My research interests include experimental psychology, evolutionary psychology, kin recognition, perception, as well as gender and social inequalities. 

Throughout my PhD I have worked part-time as a research assistant on projects on face perception, education and gender inequalities. I am currently working as a research assistant at the University of Stirling on a project investigating care-giving in human and non-human primates (chimpanzees). I am proficient at creating face stimuli using WebMorph, MorphAnalyser and Photoshop and have created both human (2D and 3D) and non-human primate (2D) facial stimuli for use in online and eye tracking studies. I use R to conduct all my data wrangling and analyses, most of which are reproducible and openly available.

I first studied accountancy and finance in Malta, before switching to a career in science in Glasgow. I have two dogs who occupy most of my heart and free time. I also enjoy learning about different cultures, design, yoga, knitting and coding in R. In the run up to my viva, I have been spending my free time learning Python and searching for postdoctoral and data science roles that align with my interests in quantitative data analysis.
